
Recall that power transfer is one of the major goals for electric circuits.  The electric-grid that supplies power to homes and industry is arranged for efficient power delivery from the source to the load.  But is this case the load is whatever a customer connects, so the source is designed to supply power to all loads with minimal loss during delivery.  Power is also an important concern for communications circuits.  For example, when data is transmitted from a satellite to earth, due to the very limited power at the satellite it is extremely important to couple as much available signal power to the antenna for data transmission back to earth.  Furthermore, we may seek to minimize wasted power in portable electronics to achieve longer battery life.  Thus power is not only an issue for heating, motors, etc., but significant for data and information systems as well.

In this chapter we examine power in circuits, and use two specific problems to illustrate ways to understand the impact of power constraints on circuits.  Firstly, we will look at ways to distribute power uniformly over a desired set of resistor elements. This might occur when trying to make a uniformly heated surface.  For efficient communications it is often important to maximize the amount of signal captured from a source of limited power. Thus for our second example we seek to maximize the power transferred from a given source into a resistive load.

h4(#chapter7-uniform-power). 7.1 - Uniform Power Over Multiple Resistors

Here we seek to design a resistive circuit that dissipates a uniform amount of heat per resistor.  And furthermore we would like to do this on an array of multiple resistors.  Recall that the heat dissipation produced by a single resistor is the product of the voltage across the resistor times the current through the resistor (with our polarity convention).
